Hi guys this is Adlon,
the second instructor of this course.
I'm super excited to have you on board,
and today we're gonna start with the Machine Learning basics
and especially how to get started in Python.
So this is where you start in Python.
You have this page when you open Anaconda,
and as you understood the IDE that we're gonna use
to build our deep learning models is going to be spider.
This is an excellent IDE because this is kind of a studio,
with a lot of practical tools,
so we will definitely feel very comfortable
and efficient when creating our deep learning models.
So the first thing we need to do is launch spider
and we will get to the following page.
Here we go, that is spider.
It contains three windows.
This is the editor where we will type our code,
then this is the console where our code will be executed,
and this is another window that contains three panes,
File Explorer, Variable explorer and Help.
So file explorer is where
we will choose our working directory,
I will explain that in a second.
Then variable explorer is what will contain
all the variables we will be creating
when making our deep learning models.
And help is another window that gives you some help
about the different functions to different objects
that we'll use to build our deep learning models.
If you don't have these panes right now,
you just need to go to view and then panes
and then you select the three panes file explorer,
help and variable explorer.
All right so almost ready to get started.
When you open anaconda for the first time,
you get this temp.py file.
This is not the python file
you should use to build your model.
So we will just go to file to create a new file,
a new python file and we're gonna close the temp.py file.
Okay, then we can remove all this.
We don't need this.
And now we're gonna save this python file,
into our deep learning A to Z folder.
So in the resources of this tutorial,
you have the deep learning A to Z template folder,
so feel free to download it
and put it wherever you want on your machine.
Right now it is on my desktop.
So let's open this folder, here we go.
And in this folder we have three subfolders,
get the machine learning basics,
volume one about supervised deep learning
and volume two about unsupervised deep learning.
So right now we are at the section
get the machine learning basics.
So let's go inside and inside you will find two subfolders,
data preprocessing template and classification template.
Indeed in this get the machine learning basics section,
we will build two templates,
that will be very useful for our deep learning models.
The first one is a data preprocessing template
which is essential in machine learning
and deep learning in general.
So that our machine learning models
can learn in the best conditions
and the classification template that contains
a lot of practical tools for our machine learning models.
So we're gonna start with the data preprocessing template.
And this is in this folder that we want to save
our first Python file and that is for a specific reason.
It's because this folder contains the data set
with which we will be working
to make this data preprocessing template .
So the first thing you have to know,
is that you should save your python file
in the same folder that contains the data set.
So let's give a name to this python file.
I'm gonna call it data_preprocessing_template.
All right and then you can click on save,
and this will save your python file,
and now we're ready to start.
So let's give a title to this file.
I'm pressing the hash key here
to introduce a new comment data preprocessing.
Here we go and now what is the first thing we have to do?
Well the first step,
is to set the right folder as working directory.
And as I just explained,
this folder is the folder that contains the data set
with which we're gonna make our machine learning models.
So how to set this folder as working directory?
Well that's very simple.
We need to go to file explorer,
then right now I'm on my desktop,
this is the deep learning A to Z folder,
the folder of the course so we click on it.
And now we need to find the folder
that contains the data set.
So it is in the get the machine learning basics,
then data preprocessing templates and here we go,
that's the right folder.
This contains the python file that I've just saved
and this is the data.csb file that is the data set
with which we're gonna do the data preprocessing.
And then once you find this right folder,
what you have to do is click on this tool button here
and then set console working directory.
All right and now you just set the right folder
as a working directory and you're ready to start.
Okay so now the second step is to import the libraries
the essential libraries that we'll use most of the time
to build our machine learning models.
So I'm going to introduce here a new section
that I'm gonna call importing the libraries
and in this code section I'm going to import
the three essential libraries which are numpy,
matplotlib and pandas.
I'm going to explain right now what they are,
but first let's import them one by one.
So to import a library in general,
we need to use the command import,
then we add the name of the library,
so the first one we're importing is numpy.
And then we can give a shortcut just to be more
efficient than when coding.
And to add a shortcut we type as,
and then we give the name of the shortcut,
and this is going to be np.
This is what we do in common practice.
And so what is this numpy library?
This numpy library is the library that we'll use
to do most of the mathematics in python,
and mostly to work with arrays.
Because you're gonna see,
that when making machine learning models and deep models,
we will work mostly with arrays.
So that's the first essential library
that we'll use most of the time.
Then second library, so this second library is matplotlib.
And basically this is the library
that we'll use to plot nice charts.
So it can be to plot some curve,
it can be to plot some histograms,
some prediction regions some prediction boundary you'll see.
We will plot very nice graphs with matplotlib,
and so we should absolutely import it.
So import matplotlib and actually
we're using a sub library of this library
which is pyplot and as for numpy we will give it a shortcut
and we'll say it is plt all right.
And now last library pandas,
pandas is an amazing library to import and manage data sets.
You will see how it is so practical,
and there will be no data set
that we won't treat with pandas in this course.
So let's import pandas as well,
and we're gonna give it a shortcut pd.
All right so that's the three essential libraries
we'll use in this course so let's import them,
cause so far I just wrote the line of code,
but now we have to execute them
so that we can effectively import the libraries.
So to execute a line of code you need to select the line
and then you can use a shortcut on your keyboard
which is Command + Control + Enter
and here we go numpy is just imported.
Now let's do the same for pyplots,
here we go pyplot imported.
And finally pandas, pressing Command + Control + Enter
to execute and pandas is now imported.
Perfect!
Congratulations on making your first step
of the data pre-processing journey.
We have a few steps left,
and we'll do them in the next tutorials.
Until then, enjoy machine learning.